---
title: A long overdue introduction
author: aredridel
date: 2014-03-05
template: article.jade
---

This has been a long time coming. I've been holding on to this domain name
intending to do something excellent.

A few things are coming together to give this site the critical attention it
needs from me right now: Fighting sexism in technology companies and
particularly in programming is actually happening widely, and the discussions
around that are taking place on Twitter and blogs like this one, and these
issues play into the larger problem that technology companies have widely
ignored larger social problems, and even special interest groups are largely
technical and ignoring social issue aside from a few narrow fields: patent
reform, copyright law reform, and occasionally, trying to reinvent social
institutions in ways where the technical structure more than our social
structure is what drives results.

"Social media" has become the mode, with most sites expected to provide some
measure of ability for its readers to push back or at least share some feature
of the site with 'friends' and more distantly connected people, sometimes
pathologically requiring us to share more than we would like for the mere
privilege of using the site, game or tool.

The revelations that the National Security Agency has been reading every bit of
internet traffic they can get their hands on are public, to the surprise of
most, but the tinfoil hat security types are saying 'I told you so'.

None of this is helped with the Internet being balkanized, 'web pages' with at
most simple access control replaced by ever-shifting networks with private
APIs, interoperability only within these mostly corporate feifdoms, all smaller
sites who try to get a critical mass suddenly beholden in some way to a few big
players. Having power and computation itself so greatly concentrated into few
hands has made it relatively eay for wholesale spying on the entire world's
communication.

There are people working to keep the web open, though. [Aral
Balkan](http://aralbalkan.com/) has a delightful talk up called [Digital
Feudalism and How to Avoid It](http://thelink.is/avoidingdigitalfeudalism) that
sums up a lot of the problems from a technical perspective.

Maybe the human tendency to want the underdog to win is useful: Our own freedom
is that scrappy fighter right now.

It's going to take a lot of people, and we're going to have to reclaim our
place as Netizens to do it.
